.\" Manpage for x5092json
.\" Errors or types may be addressed via pull request to https://github.com/jcrowgey/x5092json/

.TH MAN 1 "25 Dec 2018" "1.0" "x5092json man page"
.SH NAME
x5092json \- Parse x509 TLS certificates, serialize as JSON
.SH SYNOPSIS
usage: x5092json [-h] [--inform {DER,PEM}]
                 [--in IN] [--out OUT]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help          show this help message and exit
  --inform {DER,PEM}
  --in IN
  --out OUT

.SH DESCRIPTION

This tool reads x509 TLS certificates and outputs their details as
machine-readable JSON documents.  Has been used successfully on over 400
million certificates found in the wild.  Provides a
command\-line tool as well as an importable module.

.SH MOTIVATION
PyCA\-Cryptography (https://github.com/pyca/cryptography) provides a wonderful
set of cryptographic operations for Python programmers, but the focus of that
library is the safe and correct generation and usage of cryptographic artifacts
and procedures.  However, many certificates in use on the Internet present a
lack of compliance with standards and best practices.  The x5092json package
takes the safety belts off to provide a parser which is robust to the vagaries
which one finds when processing real data deployed in the wilds of the
Internet.

.SH EXAMPLES

    $ cat mycert.pem | x5092json
        Reads a PEM formatted x509 Certificate from STDIN by default,
        the JSON document is printed on STDOUT.

    $ x5092json --in mycert.pem
    But the input filename may be specified with --in

    $ cat mycert.crt | x5092json --inform DER
        DER encoding is selectable with --inform

    $ cat mycert.crt | x5092json --inform DER --out mycert.json
        You can specify the output file with --out.

.SH AUTHOR
    Written by Joshua Crowgey

.SH REPORTING BUGS
    Issues may reported at https://github.com/jcrowgey/x5092json/. Pull
    Requests accepted!
